#summary Releases

ArbotiX software, especially PyPose, is continuously under development. The underlying BioloidController and other libraries are for the most part static, while new features may be added from time to time and code may be tuned, the overall interface is mostly set in stone. PyPose is R&D software, created by roboticists, for roboticists. As such, releases for PyPose will come frequently. 

This page is geared towards end users. The DevelopmentTimeline page has more details for programmers who want to keep up on internal details of PyPose. 

= Version 1.0b - November 14, 2009 = 
This release implements speed control during pose transition in the Pose Editor, as well as numerous, but nearly unseen, changes in the port drivers. We've unified the port architecture, which will allow for much easier interfacing with a USBDynamixel or other direct pass through (although, the port dialog still needs an overhaul). 

We've also broken off many of the libraries previously included into a new distribution [http://robocontroller.googlecode.com the RoboController library]. Notably, our sensor libraries, such as SharpIR, Srf05, etc, have moved to !RoboControllerLib as they are more general (BioloidController and Motors2, as well special mega644 safe library versions like Wire and Servo, are still included). This dual-distribution system will make it easier to release more frequent updates to the libraries themselves. 

Known Issues:
 # The screen may not resize correctly at times, it is recommended that you switch to a different tool and then back to the desired tool if the screen does not show some controls.

= Version 1.0a - October 18, 2009 =
This release is the first fully functional release. There are several changes to the BioloidController library, and many upgrades and bug fixes for PyPose. Users who installed Beta releases should do a complete upgrade. Those who installed release candidates only need to upgrade their libraries, the pypose sketch, and PyPose itself.

Known Issues:
 # On some systems, ports may not be recognized. It is recommended to use the *serial* command inside the _Servo Terminal_.
 # The screen may not resize correctly at times, it is recommended that you switch to a different tool and then back to the desired tool if the screen does not show some controls.
 # MacOSX testing is currently limited. If you are a MacOSX user, please drop us an email at [mailto:debug@vanadiumlabs.com debug@vanadiumlabs.com] so we can be in touch.

_Note: Releases are numbered as X.Yz where X is a numeric major-release, Y is a numeric minor release, and z is a lowercase alphabetic release. Numeric major releases will be frequent, minor releases will denote major additions of new tools or features, alphabetic releases typically denote minor bug fixes. The entire release follows the release number of the PyPose program._