#summary Development Timeline

This page is geared towards developers and power-users. For general coverage of releases, see the ArbotixReleases page. 

Note: We originally used a V1.1 type release number -- but this gets complex with so many releases. We've now moved to an Arduino-style release versioning, 0001, 0002, etc.

= Long Term Improvement and Developments Outline =
   * Support for Mammal 3DOF
   * Finish the Servo Terminal: Specifically, add the ability to fiddle with registers in a meaningful and easy fashion.
   * Port Dialog Overhaul: Make the "open port" dialog easier to use. Add ability to switch driver characteristics.
   * New Examples: a rover with closed loop feedback 
   * New IK Templates: currently we have 3DOF Lizard, 3DOF Mammal. We'd like to add: 
     # 4DOF Lizard.
     # 4DOF Biped. - _currently experimental_
     # 5DOF Biped.
   * New Gaits: We currently have a number of Ripple, Amble, and Tripod Gaits. We'd like to add: 
     # Geometrically Stable Ripple. - _currently experimental_
     # Possibly add support for planar tails to assist with stability.
   * Gait Template Structure: Currently, gaits are integrated into the templates, eventually we would like to support separate gait files.

= Development Plan =
 
 * Release 0014 - This release will contain Mammal IK, and final implementations of several key tools in PyPose: the servo terminal, and the port dialog. (Summer 2010)
   * 3DOF Mammal IK template for NUKE
   * Finish Servo Terminal
   * Port Dialog Overhaul
   * FIXED: .ppr should automatically be added to the name of the pose file - <font color="#FF0000">_in progress_</font> 
   * AX-S1 driver macros (Issue 10) - <font color="#FF0000">_in progress_</font>
   * Added live update to pose editor.

= Revision History =

 * Release 0013 - This release will contain numerous updates and bug fixes, as we roll out the RX-bridge, tested support for NUKE on hexapods, and a number of small tweaks to NUKE and related technologies. (May 2010)
   * FIXED: Keyboard Accelerator issues (Issue 14)
   * FIXED: Commander.py reversals from southpaw mods. 
   * FIXED: Added LED blink routine previously removed from Commander Library to default NUKE sketch.
   * FIXED: Multiple issues with hexapods and NUKE, has now been fully tested for 3DOF Lizard hexapods. 
   * BioloidController updates to allow RX servo control. - <font color="#0000FF">_Final Testing_</font> (Issue 19)
 
 * Release 0012 Patch 1 (3-10-2010, r457)
   * FIXED: Southpaw error in Commander library. 
   * FIXED: Capture/Set pose gives port error when a pose is not selected. (Issue #21)
   * Added programmers.txt
   * Beta of RX servo support 

 * Release 0012 (2-21-2010, r443)
   * FIXED: Issues with sequence export
   * Full NUKE support for Lizard IK
   * Re-ordered default servo mapping.
   * Relax servos at the beginning of neutral/limit captures
   * Move test drive button down near export
   * Messages after finishing neutral capture
   * Support for Arduino 0018

 * Release 0011 (1-3-10) (V1.1 Beta1)
   * First pass of NUKE IK interface (limits, neutrals, mapping, params)
   * Support for Lizard 3DOF, 4/6 legs
   * Released EncodersAB and Commander Libraries

 * Release 0010 (11-29-09, r365) (V1.0c)
   * FIXED: Issues with Delta-T under Pose Editor

 * Release 0009 (11-14-09, r351) (V1.0b)
   * Port drivers merged
   * Delta-T added to Pose Editor "set" command
   * Many libraries moved to [http://robocontroller.googlecode.com RoboControllerLib]

 * Release 0008 (10-18-09, r329) (V1.0a)
   * FIXED: Port errors are actually now detected (arbotix.py pushes errors higher).
   * FIXED: Blank transition error.
   * FIXED: Timeout issues. 
   * Port detection overhauled for MacOSX users. 

 * Release 0007 (10/17/09) (rc1a)
   * FIXED: Save/load bug

 * Release 0007 (10/2/09) (rc1)
   * FIXED: Error messages in multiple places, cleaned up portions of code
   * FIXED: New project dialog. 

 * Release 0006 (9/28/09) (Beta4a)
   * Updated libraries: pypose (for PyPose V0.97) was made much faster
   * PyPose Improvements: (V0.97)
     # "robot" is now "project"
     # Fixed various issues with dialogs and borders under Windows
     # Reorganized tool structure 
     # Added first pass of Terminal tool
     # Key shortcuts for pose operations
     # Dialog added to change pose names
     # Improved port management and error messages
     # Selection of serial ports (rather than having to enter them)
     # Includes all files we used to pull from Sanguino
   * Updated examples:
     # droid (now includes droid.ppr)

 * Release 0005 (9/18/09) (Beta3b)
   * PyPose V0.93 - Live playback of sequences!

 * Release 0004 (9/16/09) (Beta3a)
   * Servo editors are now disabled until a pose is selected.

 * Release 0003 (9/15/09) (Beta3)
   * New libraries: Commander
   * PyPose improvements: (V0.91)
     # Completely rewritten, using wxPython instead of !TkInter
     # Sequence creation
   * Bioloid library improvements:
     # Sequence Engine
   * Updated examples: pypose

 * Release 0002 (8/27/09) (Beta2)
   * New libraries: Motors2, Srf05
   * Renamed libraries: sharpIR is now SharpIR, bioloid is now Bioloid
   * PyPose improvements: (V0.89)
     # USBDynamixel driver _(note: currently not usable without editing code)_
   * New examples: issy

 * Release 0001 (8/8/09)
   * New libraries: bioloid, sharpIR
   * PyPose functionality: (V0.50)
     # create robot files, capture poses
     # export to AVR
     # code and sketch to interact with arbotiX
   * New examples: droid, pypose